Y'all are a bunch of assholes
You know why?
Ya'll don't got the guts to be who yo wanna be
You need people like me
You need people like me so you can prick your fucking fingers
I said, that's the bad guy

See, I don't think these niggas ready though
Rock up in the club, and go dumb, call me Radio
Turnt all the way up, like the car stereo
Call me Bernie Sanders cos' I'm trying to hit Larry's hoe
Bump me in the club, bitch, you better play your burial
I wake up getting money, you wake up being cereal
What you had for breakfast? A little bowl of Cheerios?
Meanwhile I made a ten piece that's a demerol
Nigga, and I don't tolerate no disrespect
Man I got my foot on all these niggas' neck
Put your money on the ground, nigga that's a bet
Cheating on them dice and I'm gonna smoke you like cigarette
Ay, what the fuck wrong with these niggas?
I'm getting money, y'all ain't going home with these women
Put a couple hundred on the phone for my niggas
Pimping hoes, stealing like Jerome to these bitches
You ain't get no money boy, sit it down
Put some killers on your head, I'm about to send them now
Free my niggas off them chains, took that shit to trial
You don't look dog, bet you eat puppy chow
I was born a bad boy, like one on Puffy Chows
Use to be broke, used to hear my stomach growl
Came on my dick and bad bitch is stomach now
If it's beef, it's on sight, I don't fuck around
Put some fire to that boil like he want to black him out
He in the ICU, and I ain't talking vows
Call his ass at a show and shot through the crowd
I let us see my niggas eat, that shit made me proud
I fuck my bitch best friend, I'm steppin' out of bounds
Making plays in the O', like I'm a Cleveland Brown
They trynna stop me from ballin', ref, that's a foul
You mad at the boss cos' your bitch thirsty?
So you wanna internet, start a controversy?
Get your black ass melted, look like a bar of Hershey's?
Swear to god you niggas funnier than Eddie Murphy
So ma' I gotta go to court like Frank Murphy
Hired a jew for a lawyer so I ain't worried
Heard I got a main judge, hope he show mercy
Oh Imma turn up in this bitch like I'm on ten perkins
Hop on Instagram, my DM be slappin'
I'm trynna fuck bitch, enough with the chattin'
She dropped her location, I pull up and grab her
She sucking dick in the car, this bitch about action
I've been about action, been about stackin'
My shoes $1,400, now been about fashion
Gloss all on her face, how I pay for them lashes
Put a bullet in your son, go pay for his casket
What I tell you niggas 'bout that clout chasing
Put that chopper to his head, now about facing
I be wondering with my dogs so I can Dalmatian
Matter of fact, I'm with the army, like the salvation
Bitch I'm tied-in like my shoe strings
You niggas really bitches with your mood swings
I had to work for y'all hard, cos I move things
Like the stock boy in the market, bitch I move beans
One thing about me? I don't trust shit
You might just be a snitch, white boy Rick
I don't do construction but I stack bricks
[?} Neiman Marcus and Saks 5th
I got to where I'm at cos' I take risk
Playin' roles of holes like I take dick
I don't wanna fuck with your bitch she can't take dick
Dumb bitch still wearing K-Swiss
Ay, fuck you man!
Who put this thing together? Me!
That's who!
Who do I trust? Me!EmbedShare URLCopyEmbedCopy