Aye Cuz you recording Nigga
Yeah Zah Banks


Back Up In The Mix Again
Never Thought it would Get like this Again (no,no)
Streets cold Michigan , Or The Raq Windy City like Pip & Them (uhh) Cops Lurking . We watching . We Move when ya Plotting . Make Magic No Johnson . Ya Can’t Stop this Progress

How dare a nigga try to Test me (what) ... bitch nike can't Check even me (naw) or Reject me .... im ina front line you be where the Rest Be .. straight headshots fuck wea ya vest Be (headshot) ... if you dont touch money boy you can't address me... I got Wolves Hold 11 no JC (t-wolves) ayo I got em let me show em How I flex B
(Tell him how I)
Never liked the Mix so I Crept my way outta there , like how you know my name man I’m Outta here (im out)
It’s Still Swaggy Zah From The bottom real Cool when I step but I Never was a model yeah , we still pop bitches and the bottles fam  , peep the gang yeah we going full throttle man , bad lil bitch yeah she swallow (she swallow)
(Uhh) back up in the mix(in the mix) , Louie That , Gucci This boy Swag So Rich (so rich)
Could give a fuck about a bitch , cause if I make one call I could have ya best friend Strip . ITS ZB but the Ladies call me BANKS , just know I mean it every time I say Thanks(thank you) can’t sleep on the cash never Learned how to Plank , And I’m smoking Backwoods cause it go w the drank (uhh) (drank)


Back Up In The Mix Again
Never Thought it would Get like this Again
Streets cold Michigan , Or The Raq Windy City like Pip & Them . Cops Lurking . We watching . We Move when ya Plotting . Make Magic No Johnson . Ya Can’t Stop This Progress ...


Yeah boy back w another one . This verse gon sneak like Uppercut , Peep the scheme gotta see where I’m coming from (look) 8 letters so I’m Giving niggas Buzzcuts (look)
Z, be the Letter that’s Starting the Name
A, is for Accurate steady w Aim
H, Cause I’m Holdin the Crown on my Head . Stop Poppin Dem Xans Boy ya Niggas Look Dead
B, W the Gang And We stacking this Bread
A, One more time  im Allergic To Feds
N, it be nothing that’s stoping my Shine
K, fa the Killer ain’t getting no Time
S, is the Letter that’s wrapping it up Cause I’m Saucing(sauce) im Swagin(swag)I’m smacking (smack) shit up
ZAH BANKS the Name So come Double My Cup & Go Run that Verse Back If you couldn’t catch up . (Uhh)


Back Up In The Mix Again
Never Thought it would Get like this Again (no,no)
Streets cold Michigan , Or The Raq Windy City like Pip & Them
Cops Lurking . We watching . We Move when ya Plotting . Make Magic No Johnson . Ya Can’t Stop This Progress1EmbedShare URLCopyEmbedCopy